Sometimes, as developers we find doing the same thing, concentrating on the same field to be monotonous and it's true. I myself sometimes find playing FIFA to be every repetitive. When events or a sentiment like this develops one doesn't have to look far for a solution. It's time for you to jump to another ship you always wished for. From what I believe, people have many interests and they shouldn't be limited to only a single thing. I myself enjoy Web Designing but that doesn't mean I cannot enjoy Data Science (which I do).

Why Should I Jump Ship
Expanding your interest
Exploring another field, as I have said (written) before, indulging into fields of interest you were not experienced in can be a fun adventure

Money
As always, it's all about the money. People decide to jump ship because they may have found a much more paying field.

Job Security
The country or city may be in may provide less jobs related to their field of study. Being jobless is not cool so a developer may decide to jump to ship with more job opportunities. This also accounts for multi-talented developers

Exploration
It's a fun thing to explore different fields and that is why some developers may decide to change ships. Increasing increasing knowledge can fun (and tiresome) and can come in handy for job opportunities.

Following the Hype
The world is changing and some developing tools may have become outdated. It makes sense to follow up on the current trend of today's technology. This implies that developers should be able to adapt to any change so as to make their skills useful. The world is changing and so should you.

Now that we are done on some of the common reasons, let's see what we can do to ensure an effective career change

Interest
Ask yourself if this new field is of interest to you, will it be worth your time, money and dedication. Jumping ships without considering this will leave you stuck doing something your don't like and I can tell you it's not fun.

Job opportunities
Consider the job opportunities that come with the job. It's not cool being qualified in a new field but you have limited job opportunities.

Future
Consider the future of the field you are aspiring to jump to. With the way our world is going some things are becoming DIY and that may be bad news to some developers. The future also applies to the developer, they should ask themselves questions like: "How am I going to grow in skill and knowledge if I do this field", "Can I make a decent living out of it"

Choose your destiny wisely, you may waste your time engaging in unproductive fields.